let's go live now to Central Gaza and
speak to alzer's hany mmud in De alala
so Hy Israeli air strikes have been
intensify what's the latest you can tell
us on the ground
there well good morning and ID Mubarak
to all the colleagues and the Israeli
military continue to pound across the
central area and the southern part of
the strip mainly Raa City and
retaliation to what appear to be the
biggest loss for the Israeli military as
uh Hamas and its military uh fighting
groups on the ground ambushed an armed
vehicle and leading to the death of uh
eight soldiers as the Israeli military
is stated uh in retaliation to that
Israeli military aggressively attacked a
major parts of the western area of Rafa
City including the Saudi neighborhood
the Japanese Garden sulan area where
there are hundreds of of families are
trapped in that area destroying majority
of the residential homes and the public
facilities and around the vicinity of a
an honorable school that's an evacuation
Center where people were panicking
literally at a very state state of panic
and quite fearful of the indiscriminate
attacks by uh the Israeli military in
the Central Area mainly the eastern part
of Bal City where as of a midnight and
early hours of this morning we could
clearly hear the constant nonstop
artillery chilling of areas in which the
Israeli military stated these were
identifi the infrastructure used by
Palestinians fighting a group at the
eastern part of Gaza of the Gaza Strip
Eastern of D City without giving further
information of the nature of these
attacks that are done that these are
based on internal precise intelligence
information but what these attacks did
they they kept pushing people into
further internal inforce displacement
for hundreds of more of displaced
families whose uh sense of security and
safety is is being shattered at a very
major level right now whether here or in
the northern uh part of the strip in
which not only right now people are
struggling to deal with the uh the uh
the unpredictable
bombs and they deliberate attacks on
their homes whether in the eastern part
of of Gaza City or further to the
northern part of the strip but also the
spread of enforc dehydration and
starvation particularly we're talking
about on the first day uh of where
literally we're we're we're looking at
hundreds of thousand of of Palestinian
displaced families and many of them are
in morning and on this particular day
many of the uh many of the Traditions
such as
buying a new like simple things like
buying a new clothes or making Eed treat
are out of Out Of Reach for most people
and in addition to a major tradition for
Muslims here which is the offering the
or the sacrifice of an animal is made
Impossible by The Soaring of prices and
by the ongoing blockade uh on the The
Crossings one important element and it's
causing quite of a tragedy to people
here is the uh the prent of almost 3,000
people who were supposed to go and
perform Haj are unable to do this
because of the ongoing blockade uh on
the crossings ra Crossing is the only
exit point for gazans to the outside
world and it has been almost 40 days uh
we're looking at complete en closure of
this particular exit Point people are
unable uh to exit and perform uh Haj at
this at this year so this is is mixed of
feelings people were hoping
hopeful for a potential seiz fire other
than the fact we heard this morning and
isra statement about a tactical pause of
the fighting in ra to allow more
humanitarian trucks into the southern
part of the strip but from past
experience tactical pauses are nothing
shorter of a a stop of shedding blood
which means it's a break from killing
people until further notice that's
that's causing major panic and concern
because it's almost unpredictable what
is going to happen at what level uh the
aggression is going to be H mm thanks
very much indeed for that
update make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler